The Spring Boot app is created, we have a database in place,
and we have a basic overview and understanding of
what we're going to be building.
So first up,
we need to add a starter dependency that will include the Spring
Data JPA library and then connect it to Postgres.
If you remember, in Spring Boot,
all of our dependencies are managed in the Maven POM file,
so I'm going to go ahead and open that file up,
and I'll scroll down to the dependency section.
Underneath the spring-boot-starter-web dependency,
I'm going to add the new dependency like this called spring-boot-starter-jpa.
Since we're also using a Postgres DB for this application,
we need to add the Postgres JDBC driver dependency so that
we can properly connect to the database.
We can do that by adding this dependency.
Go ahead and save the file,
and you'll notice that IntelliJ is asking you if you want to
import the Maven changes that you just made.
We do want to bring these in,
so I'm going to go ahead and click on that link to have
those pulled in and added to my project.
Once IntelliJ is done synching the dependencies,
we can go ahead and close that tab.
At this point, we're almost done with getting connected.
The last piece is to tell Spring Boot what the Postgres connection URL is.
That information will be added to our properties file,
which in Spring Boot, will be in src, main,
resources, application.properties.
Go ahead and open that file.
Currently, this file is empty.
I'm going to go ahead and add the following properties.
If you remember from the previous clip,
you need to know what your URL is to your database.
In this particular instance,
my URL is located here at the datasource.url property.
Your URL might be slightly different depending on what port you're using,
what you named the database, and so on.
I've also managed to set up my database that doesn't
require a username or password.
Yours may need this information, especially if you're using the Docker container.
And the last three properties should be able to be universal,
and you can set those as seen here.
I'm going to go ahead and save the file.
And at this point,
we're now done getting Spring Data JPA and JPA installed into our application and connected to our database.